---
layout: article.vto
title: "Introducing the Haskell Foundation Stability Working Group"
date: 2025-03-31
language: haskell
source: "https://blog.haskell.org/stability-working-group/"
tags: [community, governance]
version: ""
url: /articles/2025-03-31-haskell/
---

What is stability? What has the Haskell Foundation Stability Working Group been working on?

## Who am I?

I am Trevis, chair of the Stability Working Group. The health of the Haskell ecosystem is very important to me. Most of my professional career to this point has involved using Haskell. As such it is in my own best interest to help the community to be healthy and grow. That way I can continue to work in the language and ecosystem! Even prior to my professional career, I used Haskell as an undergraduate. Despite it not being a part of the curriculum and being met with skepticism from several advisors that I could ever find work in Haskell.

Working first as a member and now chair of the Haskell Foundation Stability Working Group has been enlightening. Over the last few years two things have become very apparent. First, that there is a real appetite for movement from practitioners on some notion of stability. Second, getting things done in this area takes much more time and effort than it would seem.

With the appetite from practitioners and effort in mind, let me describe my views on stability, the operating goals of the Stability Working Group, who the group is, what we have been working on, and how you can help.

## What is stability? What is it not?

Stability is often used with different definitions. As a result discussions can be confusing, unintentionally misrepresentative, or worse. The concern here is about *ecosystem stability*. So let us discuss *ecosystem* and *stability* independently. Then we can move on to putting the words back together.

By ecosystem we mean the broadest most inclusive set possible. This includes compiler and tooling implementors, industrial users across the spectrums of experience and enthusiasm, language designers, library authors and maintainers, researchers, students, anyone else working with the language, and anyone who works with the aforementioned. The needs of those groups are quite diverse and can often be in tension. So one of the first things to keep in mind for stability is how to balance those needs. It is simply required to be empathetic to all of those groups.

Recognizing this diversity means realizing where there are gaps in representation in the ecosystem today. Further we must remain cognizant that many of those groups simply will not increase their engagement with the rest of the ecosystem. How then can we possibly be aware of issues or concerns if those impacted are not engaged? There must be a bridge to them. Anyone involved in being that bridge then must navigate conversations to represent needs that might be, irrelevant to them or even in tension with their own.

Now with the ecosystem in mind, what exactly is stability?

For many they will read that word and think immutability. We are talking about the Haskell ecosystem after all. However, stability here does not mean a complete lack of change. To forego change entirely would mean to not be able to incorporate new ideas or react to the 

...

*Content truncated. Please visit the original article for the full post.*