---
layout: article.vto
title: "Haskell Language Server 2.10.0.0 release"
date: 2025-04-15
language: haskell
source: "https://blog.haskell.org/hls-2-10-0-0/"
tags: [release, tooling]
version: ""
url: /articles/2025-04-15-haskell/
---

The HLS Team is proud to announce the new release of the Haskell Language Server `2.10.0.0`!

The last release of HLS was quite some time ago, back in July of 2024. Thus, this release has quite a number of new features, some of which we would like to highlight for you.

## HLS 2.10.0.0

The release `2.10.0.0` supports the following GHC versions:

- `9.12.2`
- `9.10.1`
- `9.8.4`
- `9.6.7`
- `9.4.8`
We expect `2.10.0.0` to be the last HLS release having support for GHC `9.4` versions.

### Go to Implementations

We added support for a new LSP feature called `Go to Implementations`. This LSP feature allows you to jump to the implementation of overloaded functions.

### Inlay Hints

Inlay hints allow you to display additional information within a line of code. These can be an elegant alternative to code lenses, which display additional information as a separate line above the actual line of code. For GSoC 2024, `jetjiinser` added inlay hints for various Haskell constructs where additional information can be provided.

Inlay hints are enabled by default in editors that support them, and some plugins, like the `explicit-imports` plugin, have been updated to use the new inlay hints instead of code lenses if possible.

#### Record Wildcards

When [RecordWildCards](https://downloads.haskell.org/ghc/latest/docs/users_guide/exts/record_wildcards.html#extension-RecordWildCards) are enabled, it can be tricky to tell which functions are brought into scope.

Inlay hints are convenient to show exactly which variables have been added to the scope.

#### Record construction

One more example showing the convenience of inlay hints.

#### Imports

Inlay hints are also an alternative to code lenses in many situations, for example for showing which identifiers are actually used from an `import`:

### hls-cabal-plugin features

The `hls-cabal-plugin` provides language features for `.cabal` files.

During GSoC 2024, `VenInf` added many new features to HLS' support for `.cabal` files.

Moreover, during hackathons such as MuniHac and ZuriHac, a lot of other developers also took the time and effort to fix bugs and contribute new features to the `hls-cabal-plugin`.

#### .cabal file outline

The outline on the left shows an overview of the contents of a `.cabal` file. A small quality-of-life improvement.

#### Support for cabal-add

HLS now offers a convenient code action which allows you to add a new dependency to your `.cabal` file, without having to open it yourself.

After executing the code action, we see that the `.cabal` file has been modified:

#### Hover for Dependencies

A tiny, new feature: hover for dependencies in `.cabal` files. It shows a link to the `Hackage` documentation of a package.

This is mostly a proof of concept, we expand on this idea in [PR #4428](https://github.com/haskell/haskell-language-server/pull/4428).

### GHC Structured Errors

This release is also the first release which uses GHC's structured errors infrastructure. You might not notice t

...

*Content truncated. Please visit the original article for the full post.*